# Binary Sparse Format Working Group Meeting #4 - October 3, 2022

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [ ] Tim Davis
- [X] Jim Kitchen
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [ ] Scott McMillan
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Isaac Virshup
- [ ] Will Kimmerer

## Agenda

- Discuss Erik's work on V2 spec/implementation

## Summary of Discussion

Short discussion about Zarr.  Community seems to be migrating away from HDF5,
toward Zarr.

Question: does Zarr have good support outside of Python?

Jim: Zarr has some support in NetCDF.

Erik: the V2 proposal has keywords to represent the storage format of each
      dimension:
- "Sparse" or "full" for sparse or dense values in the inner dimension
- "compressed" or "doubly_compressed" to represent an outer dimension that
  points to another inner dimension

- Could potentially add "uncompressed" to an inner dimension to reference
  an inner dimension that is full and uncompressed.

### Resources and Links

Discussion of C support for Zarr
https://github.com/zarr-developers/community/issues/9
https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/41

Chunking Support
https://github.com/fsspec/kerchunk

## Outcomes
- Ben will continue to investigate NetCDF
- Ben will investigate C/C++ support for Zarr

- Jim will talk about awkward array

Consider if there are additional values we need to support from SuiteSparse Matrix Collection's Matrix Market
- Symmetric (structure and with values)
- Are there others?
- Jim: Matrix Market has a bunch of unusual formats like Hermetian, skew symmetric, etc.
- We can potentially just store these all explicitly, without too much overhead (since we are a binary format).
- Or we could add additional attributes (e.g. "symmetric") to change the interpretation of the
  formats we already have (essentially what MM does).
