# Binary Sparse Format Working Group Meeting #1 - September 26, 2022

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [ ] Tim Davis
- [ ] Jim Kitchen
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [ ] Scott McMillan
- [ ] Erik Welch
- [ ] Isaac Virshup
- [ ] Will Kimmerer

## Agenda

- Discuss prototype implementations by Ben, Jim
    * What binary container library should we use?
        Goal: develop plan for evaluating options
        Goal: define what we need to specify vs. container library

- Discuss Erik's progress on V2.0

## Summary of Discussion

## Outcomes
