# Binary Sparse Format Working Group Meeting #2 - September 7, 2022

## Attendees
- [X] Ben Brock
- [ ] Tim Davis
- [X] Jim Kitchen
- [ ] Tim Mattson
- [X] Scott McMillan
- [X] Erik Welch
- [X] Isaac Virshup
- [ ] Will Kimmerer

## Agenda

- Discuss Erik Welch's strawman proposal for v1.0 and v2.0 specs.

## Summary of Discussion

- Discussed stacking indices/pointers arrays vs. keeping them as separate arrays.
  * Stacking potentially reduces overhead associated with having multiple arrays
  * Stacking arrays requires that they be the same type
  * Jim: perhaps stacking vs. independent arrays can be handled by the binary storage library.
  * Isaac: one library seems to represent multiple Arrow arrays as a single array.

- Add "comments" fields, perhaps some additional "attributes," or even allow users to provide arbitrary keys.

- Discussed data types.  Consensus seems to be to list datatypes of individual arrays.
  * What types should we support?
  * int8, 16, 32, 64, etc., as well as unsigned versions
  * float, double, complex
  * Isaac: what about user-defined types through Arrow?
  * More investigation necessary, but can potentially use third-party library like
    Arrow. 

- Discussed formats to support in v1.
  * Sorted, no duplicated indices.
  * COO, CSR, CSC, DCSR, DCSC, (COOR and COOC sorted by row, column, with COO
                                an alias to COOR)
  * Format name "custom" or similar will indicate explicit tensor descriptor
    in v2.

Isaac: in-memory or memory-mapped usability is a big priority.
Ben: memory-mapping is also important in distributed memory, as it can allow
     different processes to read independently in an efficient way.  Hopefully
     a binary storage library will allow us to do this.

## Outcomes

Consensus on the outline of features for v1, v2.

Deliverables:
- Ben to set up a when2meet / whenisgood to establish new meeting time.

- Erik to update his design document based on our discussion

- Ben, Jim, and Tim to implement experimental reader/writers based on the design
  document for C++, Python, C.

- Isaac to examine binary storage libraries, particularly Arrow and user-defined types
